---
#**************************************
lang: en-AU
layout: page
social-share: true
categories: kb

typora-copy-images-to: ../assets/img/${filename}
typora-root-url: ../
#**************************************

#*************************************
#fill this if you have renamed the page
redirect_from:
#*************************************

title: KB0010	
subtitle: Converting video files to .webp using FFmpeg
author: Stephen Schwetz
updated:
cover-img:
thumbnail-img:
full-width: false

share-title:
share-description: Converts any video to its smallest size version, which does not have a perceivable quality loss, while still fast to convert.
share-img:

tags:
  -  webp
  - FFmpeg
  - knowledgebase
categories: kb
comments: true
---



## Explanation:

Setting the video bitrate to *zero* while also specifying the CRF (Constant Rate Factor) enables Constant Quality mode which targets a certain perceptual quality level. For VP9, the CRF can range from 0 (best quality) to 63 (smallest file size).

It is important to set the video bitrate to zero. If you do not specify a video bitrate, it defaults to something low which gets you *Constrained* Quality mode, where each frame has a maximum bitrate. While that can be useful for streaming, it reduces quality significantly as frames with a lot of motion will not have the bandwidth needed to look good.

Another part of the reason you’re losing quality is that `webm` (VP9) prefers to encode in two passes for best results. The first pass compiles statistics about the video which is then used in the second pass to make a smaller and higher quality video.

Please see the [ffmpeg VP9 documentation](https://trac.ffmpeg.org/wiki/Encode/VP9) if you’d like to learn more.

Use two-pass Constant Quality mode:

```terminal
ffmpeg  -i input.mp4  -b:v 0  -crf 30  -pass 1  -an -f webm -y /dev/null & ffmpeg  -i input.mp4  -b:v 0  -crf 30  -pass 2  output.webm
```

## Notes

1. If you're using Microsoft Windows™ instead of UNIX, change `/dev/null` to `NUL`.
2. We discard the video using `/dev/null` because the first pass's only purpose is generating a log statistics file.

## A word about transcoding

By the way, in general, transcoding formats (taking a compressed video and recompressing it with a different codec) is a bad idea as you’ll not only add the normal errors from lossy video encoding, but you’ll waste bits in the new format trying to preserve the artifacts from the old.

## If you mean “without quality loss”, literally

The `-lossless 1` option of FFmpeg’s VP9 encoder enables lossless quality mode, but with a potentially enormous increase in filesize.

All you need is this:

```terminal
ffmpeg  -i input.mp4  -lossless 1  output.webm
```

When I tried `-lossless 1` on a low-quality `mp4`, the resulting `webm` was 100× larger, which was unacceptable. However, if your `mp4` files are already very high quality, I expect the size difference will not be so significant.



from: [stackexchange](https://video.stackexchange.com/questions/19590/convert-mp4-to-webm-without-quality-loss-with-ffmpeg)

